You're a liability.
You just run off.
do your own thing
at every opportunity.
Have you got ANY idea
how that looks?
We're a man down.
I need someone I can trust.
And I would like you
to act up as DI.
You deliberately misled
me and this team.
-I had no choice.
-No. you had a choice. OK?
You chose the wrong one. Repeatedly.
You could be looking at
a custodial sentence for this. Jay.
Someone will be in touch
about your disciplinary hearing
once the investigation's over.
You should've come to me. Jay.
and I'm sorry that you felt
that you couldn't.
- BAY CITY ROLLERS:
- ♪ If you hate me after what I say
♪ I can't put it off any longer
♪ Just gotta tell her. anyway
♪ Bye-bye. baby
Baby. bye-bye... ♪
One of my favourites. this.
This reminds me of when I used
to go dancing with your dad.
Grandad. Nana.
-What?
-Oh. er... Er. nothing. Never mind. eh?
Oh. was I being daft again?
No. no. no. Happy birthday.
You having a bit of cake. son?
-Eh. aye. yeah. Later.
-Smile!
CAMERA CLICKS
-Yous are adorable!
-I know.
Right. a wee selfie.
CAMERA CLICKS
-What are you wearing?
-Keep them rolls coming. Gemma.
I'm on it. You just
deal with the meat.
Is that venison. Jackson?
Pushing the boat out.
Nah. nothing to do with me.
Gift from His Lordship.
-Ah!
-I hope you're not jumping the queue. Mr Nichols.
Wouldn't dream of it.
-What are you having. wee man?
-Burger. thanks.
Ah. can't go wrong with a burger.
Here you go. mate.
-Oh. Mammy!
-You look great.
THEY LAUGH
-You having one. guys?
-Eh. nah. you're all right.
-Matty. I've. er. I've got a card for your gran.
-Oh. that's nice of you.
Oh. it was nice of her
to invite us. Wasn't it. love?
Hmm?
-Aye. great.
-Try not to sound too thrilled. Carl.
-Leese. don't be like that.
-Well...
-What is her problem?
-I don't... I don't know.
I don't know.
-He's still your bestie. then. eh?
-You're my bestie.
Erm. look. I probably won't be
staying much longer. but...
Oh. Well. brilliant.
-Matty! - No. Come on. - What?
-Well. because you said
-you were going to stay here.
-Yeah. well. I'm sure they'll...
Oh. here we goes. look.
This counting as overtime for you?
No. I'm off the clock. actually.
Just enjoying the harmonious vibes.
Aye. right...
Ignore him. He gets grumpy if he's
not shot anything for a few days.
Well. I suppose
I should. um. do my duty.
-Suppose you should.
-Right.
Er. ladies and gentlemen. if I may.
Why can't you stay? Look...
Guys. just. er. just a second.
Oi! A'body! Mr Loughty
wants to say a few words.
Thank you. Mr Gifford.
direct as ever.
Um. look. I couldn't let
the evening pass without a toast
to Rose on her birthday.
She is a remarkable woman. She was
a very dear friend to my mother
and. indeed. she is
a very dear friend to all of us.
So please join me
in raising your glasses.
-To Rose.
-ALL: To Rose.
Oh. it's a shame she can't be
with us today. Dickie.
I'm sorry?
Oh. yes. yes. erm... Yes.
she's a little under the weather.
-Yeah. - Oh. dear.
-It's been a long day. hasn't it. eh?
-Mm. -She gets confused.
-Yes.
Hey. Are you ready for some cake?
-I'm not hungry.
-Oh. great. I'm having to starve cos you're sulking.
-I'm not sulking.
-Right...
PHONE CHIMES
Look. I've got to go. OK?
PHONE CLICKS
Morning. Monty. Morning. boss.
Still sounds funny. that.
coming from you.
Would you prefer "ma'am"?
Ha... Would you prefer
a smack in the chops?
I'd stick to "boss" if I was you.
Right. if I could have
everybody's attention. please?
Chief Constable Willis has
something he'd like to say.
In light of the arrest
and subsequent imprisonment
of Inspector Mallick. this team
will be subject to scrutiny
from officers of the Special
Police Investigations Service.
That process begins tomorrow.
SPIS will be conducting interviews
and accessing files
-from all officers.
-We will of course adhere to any requests.
And just to be clear.
this will be a far-reaching
investigation into the wider
practices and culture of the team.
-DS Montrose?
-I can get you interviews. statements.
evidence records and court
testimonies dating back five years.
but anything earlier than that
will take longer.
I could ask my father
to send over some school reports.
And that sort of attitude
won't be tolerated during this
investigation. understood?
Sir.
Thank you. DC Lindo.
Will that be all. sir.
or can we get on with our jobs?
PHONE RINGS
Detective Inspector Barlett.
SIREN WAILS
Richard Loughty.
This is my family's estate.
DCI MacMillan. You found the body?
No. no. Twas me that found her.
-Her name's Lisa Sterling.
-Do you know her?
There's a visitors' cafe
up at the house.
She. er. works there. part-time.
-Oh. steady.
-I'm fine.
She was just a kid.
So much left to live for.
Mm. My question is. did she fall.
jump or... was she pushed?
Hard to tell.
Get Soco to take more photographs
once the body's been moved. OK?
Will do. boss.
Never would have thought of that
myself. obviously.
Hey. you think it's weird he called
his boss before he called us?
No. not necessarily.
The guys that work on these estates.
job for life. goes back generations.
You're talking blind loyalty?
Yeah. maybe.
OK. The house is up this way. so...
-How well did you know Lisa?
-She'd been working here for a few months.
-And I saw her last night at Rose Gough's party.
-Was Rose a friend?
I mean. not a friend.
Like. she's ancient. 75.
But her family are Travellers.
my family are Travellers.
It was her birthday.
But Lisa wasn't a Traveller?
She knocked around with Matty.
Rose's grandson.
-Like boyfriend-girlfriend?
-No idea. She only worked here at busy times.
so I never really
got the chance to ask.
-Everything OK. Gemma?
-OK?
Ah. sorry. Ridiculous question.
given the circumstances.
She's been very helpful.
-I was just telling them about the party last night.
-Oh. right.
-You were there. too?
-Yeah. for a little while. We've always had
very good relationships
with the Traveller community.
-Lady Loughty gave me this job.
-Yeah. so she did.
Do either of you
have Lisa's home address?
Er. it'll be on file
in the office. I expect. This way.
PHONE VIBRATES
DCI MacMillan.
I'm afraid this isn't
a convenient time to talk.
OK. I. er. I appreciate that. yeah.
I'll call you back
as soon as possible.
Time of death
between 10pm and midnight.
Boss?
Ma'am?
-Cause of death?
-It's looking like a broken neck. but that's unconfirmed.
This is the only thing found
on her person. There's no power.
-so I don't know if it's damaged.
-OK. well. get that fired up
-back at the station. That will give us her network. at least.
-Boss.
You liaise with the Socos
so we can get immediate access
to the photos and all the evidence.
I'll get uniform to do a fingertip
search with a radius
of two hundred and f...
Actually. no. make it
three hundred metres.
-That's quite some distance.
-We proceed on the basis that this is
-a murder until we know it's an accident.
-Boss.
SHE SIGHS
Did you speak to Lisa at the party?
No. I didn't stay very long.
just showed my face in the name of
-community relations.
-Was Mr Gifford there?
Er. yes. Yes. he was.
as a matter of fact.
-Did you notice anything unusual about Lisa?
-Oh. I barely saw her.
Er. yeah. I. erm. I was tempted
to get rid of this stuff.
It all seemed a tad...
well. colonial.
But. erm. visitors
find it fascinating.
Not the word I would use.
No.
My ancestors' experiences
of the colonial past was a tad
-different from yours.
-I can imagine. yeah.
-Will you be needing anything else?
-Er. no. not for the time being.
but the entire estate
needs to be closed to visitors.
-Of course.
-And the staff need to steer clear of the spot where
-the body was found.
-Any idea... how long for?
-Until we say otherwise.
-Right.
I love my job. but I hate
this part of it.
Was she...?
Where did you find her?
The woods near Loughty Hall.
-Near the Travellers. you mean?
-I'm not with you.
HE SCOFFS
I get called a bigot for saying
that she should stay away from them.
and now look.
We heard that Lisa was seeing
a Traveller boy. Is that right?
Aye.
Matty.
-They were arguing last night.
-And this was at the party?
-You were there. too?
-Aye.
What was the argument about?
Couldn't tell you.
I saw it. but I didnae hear it.
What time was this?
About nine?
Ah. about nine.
We were back here for ten. eh?
Janine needs her rest.
And you weren't concerned when
she didn't come home last night?
No. I just...
I thought she'd crashed at Matty's.
-It's him you want to talk to.
-We will.
Would it be possible
to see her room. please?
This Matty?
Aye. Aye. that's him.
Do you mind if we take it?
Whatever you need.
We found Lisa's phone. It would be
really useful if we could access it.
-Have you got any idea what her passcode is?
-Agh...
Not a clue. Sorry.
12-11-19.
Spike's birthday.
We had to give him away
when Carl moved in.
Allergies. y'know.
DOORBELL MOTHER GASPS
That'll be
the family liaison officer.
Aye...
When I heard the door there. I...
I thought. "Oh. that'll be Leese -
forgot her keys again."
There was this. er... one night...
I don't know...
Go on.
One night. Lisa said
that she was out with Matty...
and. er. then he turned up here.
said he forgot his charger.
When was this?
Oh. a month. six weeks.
I don't know.
And have you got any idea
who she was actually with?
No. We hadn't been
speaking much lately.
Hey.
Thank you for contacting
the Farrar Centre.
Your call is really important to us.
KNOCK ON DOOR
Come in.
-Oh. I can come back.
-No. no. no. I'm on hold... indefinitely.
It's a murder investigation.
Confirmed.
Lisa Sterling's injuries
are not consistent with a fall.
They're entirely to the neck
and the rear of her skull.
-She was pushed.
-And with considerable force.
Bart gave me the code
to access Lisa's phone.
The last text was from
the boyfriend. Matty -
"Please don't do this."
-Oh. so emotions were running high.
-So it seems.
Bart and Davis are heading out
to talk to him now.
Hi there. caller.
Thanks for holdi...
Ah!
OK...
-Hey. man. what's your name?
-I'm Noah.
Noah. Hi. Noah.
We're looking for a young ma...
-He doesn't need to answer your questions.
-We haven't
asked him any yet. We're just
looking for a Matthew Gough.
-Why?
-You know him?
-He's a good kid.
-So he's got nothing to worry about.
Yeah. cos that's how it works...
OK. we just need to go
door-to-door. then.
OK.
This way.
-Drina!
-Yeah? Everything all right?
They want a word with your Matty.
-Drina's his ma.
-Hi. I'm DI Bartlett.
-This is my colleague. DC Lindo.
-Is your son home?
-No. not seen him since last night.
-Have you heard from him?
Not a word. no.
Probably stayed at his pal's.
Can you tell us his pal's name?
Lisa. Lisa Sterling.
-Is that Matty's girlfriend?
-No. No. they're just mates.
What's going on?
Do you mind if we have
a word inside?
-Don't you need a warrant for that?
-Not if Mrs Gough is happy
-to have a conversation.
-All right. come on in.
Drina?
Just... give us a shout
if you need anything.
Aye.
-Who's this?
-Ah. just you finish your tea and take your tablets. Rose.
Nothing to worry about.
-Is there?
-We're just looking to talk to Matty.
Oh. Matty's long dead.
-It's young Matty they're interested in. Rose.
-Oh. right.
Mother-in-law gets a bit confused.
My boy was named after her husband.
Could we see Matty's room?
Aye. It's through there.
These are nice. Neatly kept.
Mm. like they mean a lot to him.
Could you give us
Matty's mobile number?
-It's really important we talk to him.
-OK.
But you may as well
just phone Lisa's house.
Mrs Gough. I'm afraid that Lisa
was found dead this morning.
What?
What? No way.
Wait. but how?
That's what
we're trying to find out.
Right. I'll. erm.
I'll go find the number.
Look around. Bart -
the wardrobe. the bed.
the drawers - it's like
someone already searched this place.
-Mm. or wanted to grab something and get out fast.
-Mm.
-Here it is.
-Thanks.
-Does Matty have a current passport?
-Er. no. Erm...
Wait. why does that matter?
I mean it! Out!
-What's going on?
-Lisa's dead. and they're after my Matty for it.
-We're just trying to talk to him.
-I don't know where he is.
but he would never
lay a hand on her!
Let's just all try and keep
a calm head. shall we?
Alex Nichols.
Traveller community liaison ACC.
-DI Bartlett. - DC Lindo.
-We're trying to establish what happened.
And then blame it
on the nearest Traveller. yeah?
-That's not how we operate.
-Been that way in the past.
Not from me. not from us. OK?
Look. you need to understand
the level of prejudice
-they experience as a community.
-Yeah. we understand. We're not
-jumping to any conclusions.
-But we do need to speak to Matty.
-Erm. try the college in town. He's studying sports science there.
-OK.
-Were you at Rose Gough's party last night?
-Yeah. I was.
If you took any pictures. videos.
posted anything on social media.
if you could forward it to us.
that would be great.
Get the others to do the same.
It's better coming from you.
-Yeah. definitely.
-Thanks.
-Oh. er. try Mr Marsh. He helped Matty out a while back.
-Helped how?
Yeah. he got in a bit of bother. He
got in a fight with another student.
OK. Thanks.
Look. it's all going to be fine.
guys. nothing to worry about.
-They're just doing their usual inquiries.
-Are they coming back?
It's. er...
Agh. it's such a shock.
Should the school be
making some form of...
official announcement here. or...?
Maybe hold off
till the end of the day.
Did Matty have any pals
that he might go to
if he was worried or in trouble?
Not really. I only ever
saw him with Lisa.
Is this her locker?
Good Lord! Er. yeah. Yes. it is.
Is that recent?
Of course. The janitor wouldn't
leave something like that up.
Look. this is a safe space
for our students.
But you did keep
Matty Gough around after
he was involved in
a violent incident.
-Yeah. I thought he deserved a second chance.
-Who was he fighting?
-Adam. Er. Adam Colgan.
-What was it about?
I'm not sure. actually.
You can ask him yourself.
if you like.
Adam!
-Adam!
-Hey!
Hey!
-Don't move.
-OK. Adam. what's in the bag?
-Oh! Hello!
-That made you give it the full Usain Bolt?
-I panicked a bit.
-How did you even know we were police?
You talked to Marshy.
It all looked a bit official.
Yeah. Marshy told us about
your fight with Matty Gough.
-It wasnae a fight. it was a sucker punch.
-Why would he do that?
-Ask him.
-I'm asking you.
He was sniffing about my ex.
made a joke about her.
Next thing I know. he jumps me.
Was your ex Lisa Sterling?
How do you know that?
What was you doing last night
from 10pm onwards?
-Is this serious. then. yeah?
-Answer the question.
-I was at home. gaming.
-Do you live with your parents?
-My mum. yeah. but she was working.
-Have you seen Matty Gough today?
Nah. Why. what's going on?
Is Lisa OK?
-Come on. -Up!
-Jesus!
Hi. Please. son. call me
as soon as you get this.
Look. whatever you've...
Whatever's happened. just...
I love you. all right?
And I want to help.
Please.
Productive shift. DI Bartlett?
Erm. frustrating. to be honest. sir.
Can't locate the victim's boyfriend.
Photograph distributed to airlines
and ferry terminals?
-Yeah. he doesn't have a passport.
-He can't have gone too far. then.
I understand this will be
a difficult week. with SPIS
arriving in the midst
of a murder investigation.
I mean. it's not ideal. sir. no.
Well. you should take some comfort
in the fact that you're very highly
thought of within the department.
and the fact that you were a junior
officer during this whole Mallick
fiasco means it's highly unlikely
that you'll be expected to shoulder
any significant responsibility.
-Right...
-To put it simply. SPIS have got bigger fish to fry.
Have a good evening.
I could do with a drink.
Yeah. Yeah. me too.
-What was the high heid yin after?
-SHE LAUGHS.
-What?
-Still working your way through that Scottish dictionary. I see.
Best secret Santa ever!
Willis just wanted updating.
I told him what we've got.
which isn't much.
It's funny he didn't go to Mac.
I don't think he's a fan.
Or maybe he just thinks
that I'm a competent professional.
Excuse me. it's DI Bartlett. yeah?
-Yes...?
-Harper Ross. We met at the Women In Policing event
-a couple of years ago. You gave a cool speech.
-Yeah. Yeah. course.
-How you doing?
-Thirsty. Can I get you a drink?
Ah. Erm. I was just leaving.
-Sorry.
-No biggie.
-Was it something I said?
-No. no. that's all on me.
-In that case. you need to stay.
-Because?
Because otherwise
I'd be drinking alone.
-I can see your friends are over there.
-They're just finishing up.
I thought I'd stick around.
I knew I'd seen a familiar face.
and I did. and then she left
because of you.
OK. OK. I'll have a drink.
Same again. please. And...?
-G&T.
-So. you're a copper. then?
-Used to be.
-Why did you quit?
I get that there's a glass ceiling.
but I was so many floors below
I couldn't even see it.
Mm. that's a shame.
Starting a new gig next month.
though. so. y'know. their loss.
You're not afraid of
bigging up yourself. then?
-I'm not afraid of anything.
-Oh. yeah?
I've got a healthy ego. Pretty sure
you can relate with that.
So you're analysing me?
Let's just say that's not the shirt
and tie combo of an insecure man.
Chin-chin.
ENGINE STARTS
TYRES SQUEAL
-Where do you live? -Sorry?
-I've got a cab coming.
-We could split it?
-Milligan Street.
I'm on the other side of town.
Pity. we could have talked more
on the way.
Yeah. I've enjoyed our conversation
so far. Harper.
Me too. Davis.
CAR PULLS UP
How chivalrous.
You want to... continue
the conversation. then?
Same suit two days on the run?
That's not like you.
-The dry-cleaner's let me down.
-They do your ties as well?
-Are you getting anywhere yet?
-Er. the investigation's ongoing.
Janine has just identified
her daughter's body.
-Now. we have a right to know what's happening.
-Of course.
-Have you spoken to Matty?
-We've not been able to locate him.
-Seriously?
-When we speak to him. we'll know more.
What else is there to know?
If he's done a runner. it looks bad.
-But isn't it always the boyfriend?
-Not necessarily.
You're no' tiptoeing about the
Travellers. are you? Not being woke?
Questioning Matthew Gough
is our number one priority.
-Carl. just let them do their jobs. eh?
-Aye.
How did you get on
with your stepdaughter?
-Who. me?
-You.
Well. I'm married to her mum.
we're having a baby.
Sure. we had our run-ins.
Hold on. you're not accusing me
of anything here. are you?
Nobody is accusing you of anything.
-All right. good.
-Come on.
What are you rattling his cage for?
Because it's not always
the boyfriend.
Lisa's phone has given us
an insight into her life.
We've got her social media.
emails. texts.
and photos from Rose Gough's party.
We told the Traveller liaison guy
to ask the rest of the community.
Yeah. they're already starting
to come in. I'm working my way
through them. but for the moment
I wanted you to see this.
There are multiple abusive comments
here from different user names.
but they all read like they're
from the same person somehow.
"Nasty Maggot." "Tramp GOAT."
"Desperate Skank."
-It's targeted abuse. like a fixation.
-It could be a pile-on.
-Could be stalker behaviour.
-So Matty repeatedly calls the troll out.
using aggressive language
of his own.
Well. that's a pattern. He got into
a fight with someone at college
over Lisa. he's threatening
someone online over Lisa.
he's treating those postcards
like love letters.
I wouldn't go that far.
Feels borderline obsessive to me.
Er. right. Monty. try and find out
if the accounts posting the abusive
comments are from the same VPN.
And if they are. then get a warrant
for the right IP address.
Can you just bring me up the footage
of Lisa that you showed me earlier?
This is late on at the party.
This is Lisa heading into the woods.
-And... this is Matty.
-They're not leaving together.
It's like he's following her.
So. as this footage was being taken.
Matty sent Lisa a text.
"Please don't do this."
No emoji. no kisses.
-He's imploring her.
-Does that make the boy a murderer?
Makes him our prime suspect.
Agreed.
Please forgive the interruptions.
The SPIS team have arrived.
-I'll leave you to make your own introductions.
-Sir.
Play nice.
That's her from the pub last night.
DI Bartlett. DC Lindo.
you're free to go and do your work.
See if you can find Matty Gough's
phone or. better still. Matty Gough.
-Ma'am.
-Got it. boss.
-Just give me a second. yeah?
-Yeah.
-What game are you playing. Harper?
-There's no games involved.
-I shouldn't even be here.
-You got that right.
I'm supposed to start with SPIS
next month - maternity leave cover -
but the woman went into labour
last night. three weeks early.
otherwise she'd be on this.
You never mentioned that at all
last night.
-Well. it's a bit of a passion killer.
-Yeah...
If I say anything now. I'll lose
the gig and I won't get it back.
That's a big price to pay
for one night.
So you've decided
it's only one night?
Well. you didn't stick around
for breakfast. did you?
Davis. do not scupper this for me.
Lindo. let's go.
Matty's used his phone.
The phone was only on
for a couple of seconds.
-Close to where we found Lisa?
-Close enough.
The network can't give us
a precise location.
but it was definitely
in these woods.
PHONE VIBRATES
Whoa. whoa. whoa. This is bad.
What is?
Monty found this on Lisa's socials.
SHE GROANS
We know these things
can escalate quickly.
but I'm going to be around
and I've got your backs.
I will liaise with the police
as and when. and I'm pushing the
social media companies to take down
the comments on hate speech grounds.
But for now. just try and keep calm
and keep your heads down.
-When do we ever do any different?
-Well. you know what I mean.
I'm here to look out for
your best int...
-What?
-Look. I don't think you being here is...
I don't give a toss what
you've got to say. mate. eh?
I need to speak to Drina.
Aye. Come on in.
Just the two of us.
Thanks.
This could end in
a vigilante mob situation.
-Yeah. All the more reason to find him before someone else does.
-Mm.
CRACK
-What was that?
-What?
What are you doing here. sir?
-Part of the estate. I'm always here.
-Have you seen Matty Gough?
Has there been any movement
around here today?
-Nope.
-Are there any places to take shelter? Like a cave? A shed?
Somewhere to build a den?
Probably half a dozen.
Start with the one closest to here.
Now would be great.
HE SIGHS
Right. follow me.
Look...
I know that this is
hard for you to hear.
But believe me.
it's harder for me to say.
Yeah. I understand.
Mother to mother...
please tell me the truth.
Did Matty do it?
Did he kill my Lisa?
I know. I know in my heart of hearts
that he would never.
-never do anything to harm that girl.
-Drina... -He loved her.
Then where is he?! Tell me that!
-You OK. love? I could hear shouting.
-Yeah. don't worry.
-Are you hiding him somewhere here?
-Get out of my home. -Answer me!
Carl. leave it.
Well. somebody has got to
do something!
-Where is this den?
-It's just up ahead.
You should wait here. sir.
You really think
the Gough boy's dangerous?
Better safe than sorry.
Lindo...
That blood?
You're right.
Matty?
Matty. are you there?
Matty. we're police officers.
We want to talk to you.
I'll grab the branch.
Stand there in case he legs it.
PHONE RINGS
-Any progress?
-You'll be the first to know. sir.
I don't need to tell you
it would make everyone's life
considerably easier if we could
wrap this thing up quickly.
Absolutely. sir -
you don't need to tell me that.
A young woman is dead.
The prime suspect's missing.
Social media's rife with speculation
and anti-Traveller sentiment.
and you're leading a team which is.
to put it mildly. operating
under a cloud. I hardly think
this is the time for insolence.
Detective Chief Inspector. Do you?
No. sir.
PHONE VIBRATES
Please tell me
you've found Matty Gough.
POLICE RADIO CHATTER
He was stabbed?
One stab wound. Significant
blood loss on the clothing.
-Hardly any on the ground.
-Well. so he wasn't killed here.
Someone who knew this was
a good place to hide a body.
Traces of blood suggest
they set him down there
to clear a path into the den.
Well. it feels like someone
familiar with these woods. then.
Well. Gifford reckons anyone
who grew up locally hung out here.
-No murder weapon?
-We're looking for a blade. Puncture wound.
PHONE VIBRATES
-Sorry. one second.
-There's nothing on the time of death yet.
but if you want an educated guess.
I'd say close to Lisa's.
-But no idea whether it was before or after?
-No. not yet.
So Matty was last seen
with a bag over his shoulder.
-It's gone. Phone. too.
-Seriously?
Well. we now know it wasn't him
who turned the phone on an hour ago.
-so that's something.
-Nichols is worried things are turning nasty
-at the Travellers site.
-Right. I'll take over the crime scene.
-you two better get down there.
-Really? Are you sure. boss?
-I think maybe we shou...
-Yes.
And I don't appreciate
my instructions being questioned.
Ma'am.
She seem OK to you?
Oh. yeah. she seems 100% Mac to me.
We'll do it my way. OK?
Boys. let's go.
We've got our own way
of doing things. Nichols.
This is one of them.
all right? It's fine.
You see this?
Intimidation. pure and simple.
We're standing up
for one of our own.
A young lassie is dead.
and one of yours did it.
-You shut your mouth!
-You make me. scumbag.
SHOUTING
Hey. hey. hey!
Pack it in! You. home.
-Stay there.
-Might've known you'd stick up for him. eh?
Well. he's already home. isn't he?
Now go on. And you can
take your mates with you.
or I'll nick the lot of you.
-Are you going to behave yourself. big man?
-I'm cool. - Good. Move!
-Thanks. guys.
-All part of the service.
-What's happening?
-Could you just... give us a minute? Thanks.
Coming?
I can't do it. Bart.
OK.
No...
DR IN A WAILS
No!
I'm so sorry. Drina.
No. no. no. no!
-Come on.
-No...
DR IN A WAILS AND SOBS
Right. so how specific can we get
on the time of death?
Exact same two-hour window as Lisa.
So no idea of knowing
who died first?
It's even possible
that someone saw Matty kill Lisa
and then went for him in revenge.
-What have we got on the murder weapon?
-The depth of the wounds
and the damage to the victim's
clothing suggest an unusual blade.
-What. like a hunter's knife?
-Shorter.
More of a dagger. Distinctive.
which could prove helpful.
-Only if we can get our hands on it.
-Matty's phone and bag are missing.
Why risk taking something
that ties you to the victim?
It has to contain
something incriminating.
Well. agreed. but. again.
we havenae got it. All we've got is
two dead teenagers.
Let's hope the search team can find
something at the Travellers site.
Er. Monty. where are we on the DNA?
Well. the party's causing problems.
There was hugging and dancing.
lots of physical contact.
multiple samples on both victims.
The only match our DNA database
spat out was this chap.
No way.
What. do you know him?
We just stopped him
beating up Lisa's stepfather.
Nice.
Mm. delightful.
Good work. boys.
Same time Tuesday. OK?
-Mr McIlroy. - Right.
-Hey. Noah. - Hey.
In you go. mate. Do five minutes
on the bike if you're up to it.
-All right?
-OK.
We looked for you at home first.
but your neighbour said
-that you'd be here.
-And here I am.
-Seems like a funny time to be working out.
-The boys need me here.
I run a class a couple of nights
a week. locals and Traveller lads.
I'd rather they work out their
aggression here than on each other.
And when you say "lads".
what age do you mean?
Over-16s.
Oh. right. meaning you're not
subject to a criminal record check
and don't need to declare
your conviction for GBH.
My conviction was downgraded
on appeal. sentence reduced.
Don't suppose that shows up
on your computer. though. eh?
-Apparently not.
-See. I remember. because I represented myself.
So I'm happy to talk if it helps
find out what happened to Matty
and Lisa. But just keep in mind
you're no' dealing with a mug.
-Did Matty ever come to your classes?
-Aye. he was a regular.
Where were you between the hours of
10pm and midnight on Sunday night?
-Direct. I'll give you that.
-Well. two young people are dead.
so there's no sense
in being any other way.
The party started winding down.
After that. I came home
and crashed out.
I'd had a couple of beers.
so I was asleep in no time.
Do you live alone?
-I do.
-Hmm.
If that's all.
I'm getting on now. OK?
PANTING
SHOUTING
There's no obvious motive
for Jackson to kill Matty.
Or Lisa. They were at the party.
but there's no real connection.
KNOCK ON DOOR
Yeah?
Er. if you'll excuse us. guys...
-Actually. it's DI Bartlett I'm after.
-Sir?
-I'll be talking to the media shortly.
-YOU will?
The communications team feel a more
senior officer might be appropriate.
given the developments in the case
and the escalating online tensions.
If you feel like
you're across everything.
Well. I will be once DI Bartlett
brings me up to speed.
Off you go. then. Inspector.
Right. we know Matty was not killed
where his body was found.
I mean. Jackson is
a young. healthy guy. I think
he's more than capable of
carrying a body through the woods.
Mm. How far. though? And if he was
doing some kind of fireman's lift.
-he would have got covered in blood.
-Mm.
LAPTOP CHIMES
KNOCK ON DOOR
Ugh. what now?
Matty's phone was live again. boss.
20 minutes ago.
right in the centre of town.
Did anyone see you come in?
What if they did? I'm just
comforting a friend. aren't I?
Yeah.
It's OK.
If I start. I'll never stop.
ROSE: - Matty?
Matty!
Ohhh. she's been
shouting that for hours.
I don't even think she knows
which Matty.
Drina...
love...
I've done something stupid.
What?
I lied to the police.
Thank you.
It was full to capacity
half an hour ago. 400 vehicles.
most of which leave
when the shops and offices close.
-And the phone was switched on when?
-5.17. for 90 seconds.
-90 seconds... Any CCTV?
-Yes. but the files are corrupted.
Ugh. this is a smart individual.
They needed to access the phone.
for some reason.
so they did it hiding in plain sight
to minimise risk.
Minimise but not eliminate.
I think it's a mistake.
taking the victim's phone.
and they keep turning it on.
It's like they're trying to get rid
of something incriminating.
Like the motive
for a double homicide.
What's this. the Farrar Clinic?
It's a cancer treatment centre.
Why?
Nothing. Sounds familiar.
but nothing.
OK. I want to talk timelines.
So. you spoke to Jackson
-late afternoon at the gym. yeah?
-Yes. -Could it be that he was there
and then in town to activate
Matty's phone at 5.17?
Yeah. just about.
-Have we got something more concrete on him?
-Monty?
We're still getting footage
from Rose's party.
Er. Gemma from the cafe
made the cake. so she filmed this.
So. that's Matty there in the
light jacket. with the yellow bag.
And then here. look.
just zoom in there.
So this guy here. here with
the dark hair. that's Jackson.
-threatening Matty. yeah? - Yep.
-Mm-hm. - I want you to bring him in.
DCI MacMillan? If you're ready
for your interview. we're all set.
Could you just
give us a sec. please?
-I'm just doing my job. DI Bartlett.
-She's right.
You two go and do yours. On you go.
down to the Travellers site.
Oh. actually. I don't think
they'll be there.
They'll all be in the woods.
saying their farewells to Matty.
SHE EXHALES
The Lord is close
to the broken-hearted
and saves those
who are crushed in spirit.
Do not let your hearts be troubled.
Believe in God now more than ever.
and trust that in heaven.
you will once again be reunited
with Matty in eternal life.
-Amen.
-ALL: Amen.
I should go check on Rose.
Yeah.
I'll go.
Like. I don't mind.
Thanks. Noah.
He's a good kid you've got there.
Thanks.
Interview commencing
with DCI Cora MacMillan.
DOG BARKS
-This is our tradition.
-First you search our homes. and now this?
Can't you leave us in peace
to pay our respects?
No better way to show our respects
to Matty
-than to find who took his life.
-Yeah. I'm sure a Traveller boy
-is your top priority.
-These guys have been very fair. Jackson.
They said he killed Lisa
until he turned up dead himself.
-Can you keep your voice down. please?
-Not easy when my blood's up.
What about with Matty?
Was your blood ever up with him?
-What's that supposed to mean?
-Did you fight with him at Rose's party?
Yes. about me.
Jackson and me are together.
He was with me that night.
Matty thought it was
too soon after his dad.
and I hoped he would
come around in time.
Fire! Fire!
The caravan! It's Rose.
-Fire Services are on their way.
-We can't wait!
She'll be dead by the time
they get here.
Noah! No. no. no. no!
-Rose! -Lindo!
-Rose!
HE CRIES OUT
Do not go inside that van!
Stand down. That is an order!
Get away from that door!
Rose!
HE COUGHS
Lindo!